Okay.
So in the previous lesson we declared our add selected organizations mutation.
So the only thing that is left to do is to commit this mutation in our job filters, sidebar organizations
component, which I have opened here on the left.
As a reminder, what we want to do is whenever the user selects a checkbox in addition to storing the
data locally in this component, we want to send that array of selected organizations to our view store.
And the way we're going to do that is using this ADD selected organizations mutation.
So right here in this component, I'm going to begin by importing a special helper function and it's
going to be map mutations.
Remember, map mutations is a helper that allows us to define component methods that will automatically
commit certain mutations for us.
Speaking of the mutations that we want to eventually commit, we're going to want this add selected
organizations mutation.
And so what I'm going to do is on this line below where we're importing the constants from our index,
just file in the store folder.
Here is where I can also import my ADD selected organizations constant, which of course I have exported
right here.
Okay.
So using map mutations, we need to create a method on this component that we can invoke.
So right here, I'm going to scroll down to my methods section right here.
And the way this works is we invoke map mutations, which is going to return an object with properties
and we want to make sure we destructor those properties which are methods so that they become top level
methods of this methods object and thus become the top level methods on my job filter sidebar organization's
component.
So what I can do here as a reminder is provide map mutations with an array, and in that array I write
my mutations.
So in this case I want to provide my ADD selected organizations mutation and that's just a string.
So what view x and this function is going to do for us is it's going to find this mutation, this one
right here on the right hand side, and it's going to create a method called add selected organizations
on my component.
And that method will automatically commit this very mutation for us.
All right, so now we have this functionality on a component, but we still need to run this mutation.
We still need to tell the component when we actually want to make this change to the View Store.
And of course, the place we want to do that is right here in our select organization method.
As a reminder, this is the method that we're hardwired to run right here.
Whenever the user selects a checkbox, whenever the user changes an input, we're going to trigger this
change event and have it react by invoking the select organization component method.
So previously we were simply console logging out the local data of selected organizations.
Right here to show you that this array has the strings of the organizations that the user has selected.
I want to take this array as it is and I want to run my mutation passing in that array because I want
those organizations to flow in right here so that I can overwrite my selected organization's state in
my view store.
I know it's a little bit confusing because we have selected organizations as part of our local component
state.
I want to take that local component state and I want to ship it up to the U.S., where we're going to
also make it a part of the global view state right here on the right hand side on line 16.
So what I'm going to do here.
Isn't going to invoke my ADD selected organizations mutation right here.
That's going to run the mutation behind the scenes view and view X are automatically going to provide
the current store state as the very first argument to this mutation and then any secondary arguments
I provide directly in this invocation.
So my second argument here is the expected organization's array.
So I have to provide that right here.
Where am I going to get that organization's right directly on my local component data by getting this
dot selected of organizations?
And we're going to we know at this point that this array is going to have the strings that we want at
this point.
So run the mutation and ship off the array of strings to the View X Store.
So let me save this and show you how it's going to work in the browser.
So.
I'm going to go to my app.
I'm going to expand this and I'm going to show my view dev tools.
So let's first start out on the component side.
So if I go to my job results, view my job filter sidebar, here's my job filter, sidebar organization's
component we see here that are selected organizations.
Slice of data doesn't have any items in it as soon as I select view YouTube.
Let me see if I can refresh this here.
There we go.
As soon as I say, like YouTube, we're going to see this change up here.
Right here.
If I select another one and refresh, sometimes it does get a little bit out of sync.
We can see that the data has updated to show point of view.
So this is just updating local component state.
However, the important thing is that we are also sending this data to view X and I can prove this to
you by going to this panel and going to view X.
And now if I click on Root here, we're going to see the current state of our view store and you could
see selected organizations right here has the exact same array of two strings.
And as soon as I select a third one, we're going to issue another mutation.
And that change is going to be in the array.
And we're going to send that array once again to our vehicle store, the mutation more specifically,
and that mutation is going to override the view store.
So we're now storing this data in view X.
We have it available in that global view store and the same rules apply.
If I select an organization, what's going to happen then is my components local view model will update
the local component data to have an array of two strings, and then it's going to rerun the mutation
automatically because we wired it up to the change event and the new array of two strings is going to
be sent to the View Store and then the View X is going to update its own selected organization's slice
of state.
So right here I'm going to select point of view and you can see it disappears from here as well.
Let me d select YouTube.
You can see it disappears from the view store as well.
Then I select view can do it and it appears here as well.
All right.
So we have completed our original goal, which is to find a way to take this local component data and
bring it to the View X Store.
All right.
And now that we have in our view store, our jobs array, as well as all of these selected organizations,
we can use these two pieces of data to filter our jobs to only the ones that fit the user selections
so that we can display them right here on the right hand side.
That's where we're going to start working on over the course of the next couple of lessons, and I'll
see you there.